.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/new_dataset_request.md, before:

_Please only use this issue template for LD4P2 requests for a new data source to be added to QA._

__For LD4P2 partners and cohorts:__ 

In order to request a new datasource to be added to QA for use in lookups, please provide the following information. (Email sf433 @ cornell dot edu with questions):

1. Identify the data source: (Data Source Name and Homepage URL)
2. Add a new tab and indexing information for the data soure to the following spreadsheet: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rPvEoP9iYNkxJ0eWC8gXe3ci7e6mhW0da59xkGhadi0/edit?usp=sharing.
3. Add YAML or Wiki test specifications to _____. See https://github.com/LD4P/qa_server/blob/master/lib/generators/qa_server/templates/config/authorities/linked_data/scenarios/locgenres_ld4l_cache_validation.yml#L74-L78 as an example of an accuracy test.


_Please note, all requests for new data sources in QA will be prioritized by the LD4P2 project. Due to time restrictions there is no guarantee that all requests will be added to QA during the lifetime of the LD4P2 grant; regardless of resources it is still useful to know which datasets the community would find useful in such a lookup service._

Commit message:

Adding YAML front matter
Hoping this triggers the menu options in the new issue page.

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/new_dataset_request.md, after:

---
name: 'Request a New Dataset for QA:'
about: This issue template is for LD4P2 requests for a new data source to be added to QA.

---

_Please only use this issue template for LD4P2 requests for a new data source to be added to QA._

__For LD4P2 partners and cohorts:__ 

In order to request a new datasource to be added to QA for use in lookups, please provide the following information. (Email sf433 @ cornell dot edu with questions):

1. Identify the data source: (Data Source Name and Homepage URL)
2. Add a new tab and indexing information for the data soure to the following spreadsheet: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rPvEoP9iYNkxJ0eWC8gXe3ci7e6mhW0da59xkGhadi0/edit?usp=sharing.
3. Add YAML or Wiki test specifications to _____. See https://github.com/LD4P/qa_server/blob/master/lib/generators/qa_server/templates/config/authorities/linked_data/scenarios/locgenres_ld4l_cache_validation.yml#L74-L78 as an example of an accuracy test.


_Please note, all requests for new data sources in QA will be prioritized by the LD4P2 project. Due to time restrictions there is no guarantee that all requests will be added to QA during the lifetime of the LD4P2 grant; regardless of resources it is still useful to know which datasets the community would find useful in such a lookup service._
